
The motivation for writing this paper is to discuss user knowledge gain during informational search sessions. The article examined the knowledge gain of users by employing scientifically formulated knowledge tests to calibrate a user’s knowledge before a search session using pre-tested and evaluated knowledge tests, and assess it after the session. This work recruited contributors were informed that the task entailed ‘searching the Web for some information' and randomly selected collection of topics that representing varying scopes of information needs. Moreover, this work employed SearchWell platform on top of the Bing Web Search API which logged user activities in order to finding correlation between learning progress and individual user activity features.

The primary domain where this research has shone, from my personal standpoint, is the understanding of the impact of informational search on a user’s knowledge. At first, the paper by using the accuracy of users in a knowledge test investigated the relationship between the average knowledge gain of users through informational search sessions and their average topic familiarity. The results proved that corresponding to a topic, information need has significant effect on user queries and navigational patterns, but does not directly affect the knowledge gain of users. In the spite of that, there is strongly negative linear relationship between the knowledge gain of users in informational search sessions and the topic familiarity. This indicates that the more popular a topic is, or the more familiar that users are with a topic, the lesser they tend to learn about the topic in informational search sessions.

Observations shows the number of unique terms in the last query is greater than the number of unique terms entered by users in their first query. There’s a fairly obvious reason why this is the case; the users consume more information through the course of a search session related to a given topic, their queries tend to become longer. Furthermore, evaluating the user clicks shows that there is no significant correlation between the click interval and knowledge gain of users. The paper tried to find a relation between session lengths of users and their knowledge gain in informational search sessions corresponding to the different topics and suggests that length of a session does not directly influence the knowledge gain of users.

By analysis of variance of effect of topics on the number of web pages navigated by users, the article not find notable effect of such navigation behavior on the knowledge gain. Also, linear indicated the relationship between these two variables not exist. Furthermore, by evaluating the time that users actively spent on each web page, the results shows there is a a weak positive linear relationship between this factor and their knowledge gain.

With reference to the analyses the pay-level domains (PLDs) of search engine results pages (SERPs) consumed by users during the informational search sessions the experimentation did not find a significant linear relationship between the knowledge gain of users and the number of PLDs accessed by them during the informational search sessions. Additionally, The investigations on the amount of time that users spent on the SERPs by differentiation between the time that users actively spent exploring the sections on the search results page, and the total amount of time spent including the idle time, exhibited there is no remarkable effect of the topics on the total amount of time which users spent on the search results page on average. Moreover, the research could not find a liner relationship between the number of web pages that users navigated to directly from  either search result pages or non-SERPs  and the knowledge gain of users.

The writer investigated the nature of queries developed by users in the search sessions related to different information needs. By evaluating the results, the work found a positive linear relationship between the knowledge gain of users and the percentage of query terms fired by them that did not overlap with terms in either the topic description or the knowledge tests.This suggests that the nature of the query terms that users enter in the search sessions can explain around 17% of the variance in their knowledge gain. The complexity of the queries fired by users in search sessions corresponding to the different topics shows a positive linear relationship between the knowledge gain of users and their corresponding average query complexity. The results of this study indicated the complexity of queries entered by users during the informational search sessions, explains 25% of the variance in their knowledge gain.


In conclusion, this work results revealed deeper insights into the search behavior of users in informational search sessions, and the impact of information needs on knowledge gain. The writers of  this paper aim to investigate
